"1 Chronicles 16:11","Seek the Lord and his strength; seek his presence continually!"
"1 Corinthians 10:13","No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape, that you may be able to endure it."
"1 Corinthians 15:57","But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ."
"1 Corinthians 6:11","And such were some of you. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God."
"1 Corinthians 6:13","Food is meant for the stomach and the stomach for food—and God will destroy both one and the other. The body is not meant for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body."
"1 Corinthians 6:18","Flee from sexual immorality. Every other sin a person commits is outside the body, but the sexually immoral person sins against his own body."
"1 Corinthians 6:19-20","Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body."
"1 Corinthians 6:9-10","Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God."
"1 Corinthians 7:2","But because of the temptation to sexual immorality, each man should have his own wife and each woman her own husband."
"1 Corinthians 9:27","But I discipline my body and keep it under control, lest after preaching to others I myself should be disqualified."
"1 John 1:9","If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness."
"1 John 3:3","And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure."
"1 John 4:4","Little children, you are from God and have overcome them, for he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world."
"1 Peter 1:14-16","As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written, 'You shall be holy, for I am holy.'"
"1 Peter 2:11","Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul."
"1 Peter 5:8","Be sober-minded; be watchful. Your adversary the devil prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour."
"1 Thessalonians 4:3-5","For this is the will of God, your sanctification: that you abstain from sexual immorality; that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who do not know God;"
"1 Thessalonians 4:7","For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness."
"1 Thessalonians 5:14","And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with them all."
"1 Thessalonians 5:23-24","Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful; he will surely do it."
"1 Timothy 4:12","Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity."
"1 Timothy 4:6-7","If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of the faith and of the good doctrine that you have followed. Have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths. Rather train yourself for godliness."
"1 Timothy 4:9-12","The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance. For to this end we toil and strive, because we have our hope set on the living God, who is the Savior of all people, especially of those who believe. Command and teach these things. Let no one despise you for your youth, but set the believers an example in speech, in conduct, in love, in faith, in purity."
"1 Timothy 6:11","But as for you, O man of God, flee these things. Pursue righteousness, godliness, faith, love, steadfastness, gentleness."
"2 Corinthians 10:3-5","For though we walk in the flesh, we are not waging war according to the flesh. For the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh but have divine power to destroy strongholds. We destroy arguments and every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God, and take every thought captive to obey Christ."
"2 Corinthians 12:10","For the sake of Christ, then, I am content with weaknesses, insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities. For when I am weak, then I am strong. 3 "
"2 Corinthians 5:9-10","So whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please him. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil."
"2 Corinthians 7:1","Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God."
"2 Corinthians 7:10","For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death."
"2 Peter 1:3","His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence."
"2 Timothy 1:7","For God gave us a spirit not of fear but of power and love and self-control."
"2 Timothy 2:21-22","Therefore, if anyone cleanses himself from what is dishonorable, he will be a vessel for honorable use, set apart as holy, useful to the master of the house, ready for every good work. So flee youthful passions and pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace, along with those who call on the Lord from a pure heart."
"2 Timothy 2:24-26","And the Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome but kind to everyone, able to teach, patiently enduring evil, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance leading to a knowledge of the truth, and they may come to their senses and escape from the snare of the devil, after being captured by him to do his will."
"2 Timothy 3:16-17","All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work."
"Acts 20:31","Therefore be alert, remembering that for three years I did not cease night or day to admonish every one with tears."
"Colossians 1:28-29","Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, that we may present everyone mature in Christ. For this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me."
"Colossians 2:8","See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ."
"Colossians 3:16","Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, with thankfulness in your hearts to God."
"Colossians 3:2","Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth."
"Colossians 3:5","Put to death therefore what is earthly in you: sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry."
"Deuteronomy 29:29","The secret things belong to the LORD our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law."
"Ephesians 4:22-24","Put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life and is corrupt through deceitful desires, and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness."
"Ephesians 4:29-32","Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear. 4  And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ forgave you."
"Ephesians 5:3","But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints."
"Ephesians 5:33","However, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband."
"Ephesians 5:5","For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous (that is, an idolater), has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God."
"Exodus 20:14","You shall not commit adultery."
"Galatians 1:10","For am I now seeking the approval of man, or of God? Or am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ."
"Galatians 2:20","I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me."
"Galatians 5:1","For freedom Christ has set us free; stand firm therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery."
"Galatians 5:13","For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another."
"Galatians 5:16","But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh."
"Galatians 5:19-21","Now the works of the flesh are evident: sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God."
"Galatians 6:1-2","Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you too be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ."
"Galatians 6:7-8","Do not be deceived: God is not mocked, for whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life."
"Genesis 2:24","Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh."
"Genesis 39:7-12","And after a time his master's wife cast her eyes on Joseph and said, 'Lie with me.' But he refused and said to his master's wife, 'Behold, because of me my master has no concern about anything in the house, and he has put everything that he has in my charge. He is not greater in this house than I am, nor has he kept back anything from me except you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God?' And as she spoke to Joseph day after day, he would not listen to her, to lie beside her or to be with her."
"Genesis 50:20","As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive, as they are today."
"Habakkuk 1:13","You who are of purer eyes than to see evil and cannot look at wrong, why do you idly look at traitors and remain silent when the wicked swallows up the man more righteous than he?"
"Hebrews 13:4","Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous."
"Hebrews 3:13","But exhort one another every day, as long as it is called 'today,' that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin."
"Hebrews 4:15-16","For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need."
"Isaiah 1:18-19","Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord: though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land."
"Isaiah 53:5","But he was pierced for our transgressions; he was crushed for our iniquities; upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed."
"James 1:13-14","Let no one say when he is tempted, 'I am being tempted by God,' for God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire."
"James 1:2","Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds."
"James 1:27","Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, and to keep oneself unstained from the world."
"James 4:7-8","Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded."
"Job 31:1-3","I have made a covenant with my eyes; how then could I gaze at a virgin? What would be my portion from God above and my heritage from the Almighty on high? Is not calamity for the unrighteous, and disaster for the workers of iniquity?"
"Job 4:17","Can mortal man be in the right before God? Can a man be pure before his Maker?"
"Job 42:2","I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted."
"John 8:34","Jesus answered them, 'Truly, truly, I say to you, everyone who practices sin is a slave to sin.'"
"Leviticus 18:30","So keep my charge never to practice any of these abominable customs that were practiced before you, and never to make yourselves unclean by them: I am the Lord your God."
"Mark 7:20-23","And he said, 'What comes out of a person is what defiles him. For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness. All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person.'"
"Matthew 18:15-17","If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault, between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector."
"Matthew 5:28","But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart."
"Matthew 5:30","And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell."
"Matthew 5:8","Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God."
"Matthew 7:3-5","Why do you see the speck that is in your brother's eye, but do not notice the log that is in your own eye? Or how can you say to your brother, 'Let me take the speck out of your eye,' when there is the log in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your 2  brother's eye."
"Numbers 32:23","But if you will not do so, behold, you have sinned against the Lord, and be sure your sin will find you out."
"Philippians 2:3-5","Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus."
"Philippians 4:11","Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content."
"Philippians 4:8","Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things."
"Proverbs 14:26","In the fear of the LORD one has strong confidence, and his children will have a refuge."
"Proverbs 15:1","A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger."
"Proverbs 18:13","If one gives an answer before he hears, it is his folly and shame."
"Proverbs 18:17","The one who states his case first seems right, until the other comes and examines him."
"Proverbs 19:20","Listen to advice and accept instruction, that you may gain wisdom in the future."
"Proverbs 27:17","Iron sharpens iron, and one man sharpens another."
"Proverbs 27:6","Faithful are the wounds of a friend; profuse are the kisses of an enemy."
"Proverbs 28:13","Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy."
"Proverbs 5:3-5","For the lips of a forbidden woman drip honey, and her speech is smoother than oil, but in the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. Her feet go down to death; her steps follow the path to Sheol."
"Proverbs 5:8","Keep your way far from her, and do not go near the door of her house"
"Proverbs 6:25-28","Do not desire her beauty in your heart, and do not let her capture you with her eyelashes; for the price of a prostitute is only a loaf of bread, but a married woman hunts down a precious life. Can a man carry fire next to his chest and his clothes not be burned? Or can one walk on hot coals and his feet not be scorched?"
"Proverbs 6:32","He who commits adultery lacks sense; he who does it destroys himself."
"Proverbs 7:24-27","And now, O sons, listen to me, and be attentive to the words of my mouth. Let not your heart turn aside to her ways; do not stray into her paths, for many a victim has she laid low, and all her slain are a mighty throng. Her house is the way to Sheol, going down to the chambers of death."
"Psalm 1:1-3","Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers; but his delight is in the law of the LORD, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers. 1 "
"Psalm 119:133","Keep steady my steps according to your promise, and let no iniquity get dominion over me."
"Psalm 119:37","Turn my eyes from looking at worthless things; and give me life in your ways."
"Psalm 119:9-10","How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. With my whole heart I seek you; let me not wander from your commandments!"
"Psalm 18:26","With the purified you show yourself pure; and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous."
"Psalm 24:3-4","Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully."
"Psalm 51:10","Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me."
"Psalm 84:11","For the Lord God is a sun and shield; the Lord bestows favor and honor. No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly."
"Romans 12:2-3","Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and acceptable and perfect. For by the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to think with sober judgment, each according to the measure of faith that God has assigned."
"Romans 13:12-14","The night is far gone; the day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy. But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its desires."
"Romans 13:14","But put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh, to gratify its desires."
"Romans 15:1-2","We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good, to build him up."
"Romans 15:14","I myself am satisfied about you, my brothers, that you yourselves are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge and able to instruct one another."
"Romans 15:4","For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope."
"Romans 6:11-14","So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, to make you obey its passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace."
"Romans 6:6-7","We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin."
"Romans 8:13","For if you live according to the flesh you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live."
"Romans 8:28","And we know that for those who love God all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose."
"Romans 8:37","No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us."
"Romans 8:5-6","For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the Spirit is life and peace."
"Song of Solomon 2:7","I adjure you, O daughters of Jerusalem, by the gazelles or the does of the field, that you not stir up or awaken love until it pleases."
"Titus 1:15","To the pure, all things are pure, but to the defiled and unbelieving, nothing is pure; but both their minds and their consciences are defiled."
"Titus 2:12","Training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,"